The fact that the Vigenere cipher uses multiple alphabets made it impregnable to medieval frequency analysis, and therefore incredibly difficult to break.
Furthermore, while the Caesar cipher only had 26 possible variation (if you shift the alphabet 26 times, it comes back round with A being encrypted to A) the Vigenere cipher had many more.
To be exact, 26^n where n=length of message. This grows incredibly fast. 
Regardless of the Vigenere Cipher’s incredibly strength it was not popularised for approximately two centuries after its creation, due to its complexity. Instead, homophonic substitution ciphers were used.
These were ciphers where multiple characters would represent one English character, proportional to its frequency.
For instance, the letter Z would be represented by very few characters, while the letter A would have many different possibilities.
These would not necessarily be Latin characters, they could be foreign or even just numerical representations.
Each time a character needed to be written, any one of the substitute characters would be chosen at random.
By making the number of possible substitute characters proportional to the plaintext character’s frequency, all characters in the ciphertext had equal frequency.


This made homophonic ciphers immune to basic frequency analysis, but soon enough techniques were developed to break them.
A common method is comparing the frequency of characters appearing next to each other in a ciphertext. The letter Q is so infrequent that it is likely to only have one substitution character.
It is also almost only ever followed by the letter U. Based on U’s frequency, it is likely to have three substitution characters.
Therefore, if there is a character in the cipher-text that is only ever followed by three other characters, it is reasonable to assume that it is a Q, and the three characters are the substitution characters for U.
Every character has its own personality, and so has its own tells for where it should be in a ciphertext, and by the 1700s it was no longer secure to use simple homophonic ciphers.
Every powerful country now had a Black Room, a place to professionally decrypt important information using techniques such as the ones we have discussed. The Vigenere cipher was finally accepted as the only secure was to communicate.
