Enter Charles Babbage. In the 19th century Charles Babbage made many important discoveries, but two of ideas changed the course of encryption forever.
After reviewing important public statistics and finding many errors, Babbage angrily exclaiming “I wish these calculations could be done with steam!” and designed Difference Engines 1 then 2, the first ever programmable computers.
Both of these failed, the first due to bad implementation and the second due to a lack of funding. 
Nonetheless, his ideas were still incredibly important to all society, let alone encryption.
His other big impact was that he was the first person to break the Vigenere cipher, after being challenged in a popular magazine.


The Vigenere cipher has multiple alphabets. However, assuming the encryption key used is smaller than the text being encrypted, every Xth character where X is the length of the key uses the same substitution alphabet.
This can be understood by looking at the Vigenere square (press enter). To substitute a plaintext character, you choose a substitution alphabet by using the row equal to the equivalent letter in the key.
You then substitute the plaintext character with its substitutional equivalent.
Say the encryption key was five characters long, then every 5 characters we would repeat the encryption key, therefore using the same encryption character, and therefore using the same substitution alphabet.

Plain:    	T H E Y A R E C O M I N G
Key:       	H E D G E H E D G E H E D  
Cipher: 	A L H E E Y I F U Q P R J

In the above, every fifth character uses the same encryption character, therefore the same substitution alphabet. EG: T, R and I will all be encrypted using the character H, and therefore substituted into the same alphabet.
This means we know that the ciphertext characters A, Y, and P use the same substitution alphabet. Similarly, L, I and R. Similarly, H, F, and J.
As we discussed with the Caesar cipher, we can break a monoalphabetic cipher (a cipher with only one substitution alphabet) by using frequency analysis.
This means that by decomposing the Vigenere cipher into different groups, we can perform frequency analysis on each group to calculate the substitution alphabet.
As each substitution alphabet is associated with a character in the key, we can use this to find the key. 
A frequency analysis would not work on the example I have provided because groups of three letters are not large enough to give a good approximation of the real alphabet, but longer messages would be completely abusable. 

